hey guys what's up and welcome back to
the small lytics youtube channel
today i have a really special video for
you guys
i'm interviewing long time community
member
short goal gang member jenny she's lost
45 pounds since we started working
together
following the small edicts method she
has done several rounds of the petite
power program
and i'm just so excited to finally bring
her on the channel and interview her
so that you guys can see how possible it
is for you
to achieve the same things she has in
her mindset and physical changes
so we're going to talk about everything
that she changed to
lose the weight and keep it off in the
long term and find
a really sustainable lifestyle that she
now lives
and loves i also want to let you guys
know that enrollment into the petite
power program which is our 12-week
transformation
fitness and nutrition program foreign is
taking clients right now
just for a few days only so if you are
interested in joining
check out the link below we're just
opening up the doors for a few days and
we would absolutely love to work with
you
if you're a petite woman looking to lose
fat build muscle
and live a sustainable healthy lifestyle
all right without further ado
here is the chat with jenny i hope you
guys love it and remember to give this
video
a like to kick it off i
want to start with because a lot of
people have probably seen you around in
the community but they don't know that
you lost
it's over 40 pounds right at this point
yeah well yeah it's 145 yeah
yeah 45 from 175 or 8
to 140 133
i get those numbers right yeah the main
thing so
um i would love to just take everybody
back to where you started because we
started working together in
uh early 2018 2019 1990
yeah so brain is so bad with time
okay so but let's take everybody back to
um
even actually before we started working
together where you were
back when it all started your fitness
journey um what where you are at
physically where you were mentally
and what started this whole journey for
you
it really dates back to essentially like
2016.
i had just lost a lot of weight
like i went like i had lost like 20
pounds and i had gotten down
to all like a little bit bigger than
what i am right now but like
around the same size um
and i had lost all the weight through
like different means
and then it like slowly like i just like
gained it back
it just came back and by that time like
that like
puts me in like 2017 i was at around
like the highest weight which was
around there and i like i don't know i
felt really defeated at that point
so throughout that year like 2017 like i
have a shame because of how much weight
i had gained so
fast after having lost so much weight
because it was like the highest i had
ever been at that point
so then in 2018 when like i fully
started to
like try and attempt the whole thing
over again like
i had gotten to a place where i was
trying to accept my size more
and i'd gotten pretty good at that like
mental health-wise like i think i wasn't
like
being so harsh to myself word-wise um
and then like the reason why i decided
to try to lose weight again
is because like there's like one event
in particular
that i um i was trying to come up the
stairs like i was like running up the
stairs
and it was like a flight of like 14
steps and like halfway through
i was like winded like i could not like
hold a conversation
like after that and i like i know that a
lot of like medical
like problems like my family and i like
diabetes and stuff so
i was more worried about like my health
at that point so i was like i need to do
something about it
and i started the whole trying to like
watch what i ate and like trying to work
out like
once or twice a week at that point and
that year
i lost 10 pounds like in 2018 and it was
really slow
like it was just like for maybe like a
pound
a month maybe it was but that's only
because like i knew i had lost weight
really fast
last time and it didn't work so i just
didn't want to do what i did before
and by the end of 2018 when i had lost
those 10 pounds
is when i was on instagram and i found
your page
and i stalked you like i just like
stopped the page and i was like
and i don't know like it was like a
weird connection because like i'm like
it's the fact that you were my height
like i could see like
you know you know resemblance and like
that i could relate to
because if you look at a magazine like
they're all tall and um
so like i could relate to and i stalked
it and
like it was a very big like conversation
on whether or not
i should like do the program or not so
eventually i was like okay you know what
i don't i don't know what else to do so
then i just like i bit the bullet and i
like
started working with you and that's kind
of like where my head was at
then i just like i didn't know what else
to try
and at that point were you i know you
said you took us some time and you lost
weight really slowly but at that point
were you
working out were you restricting like
what did you do that year to
lose weight previously so that year i
tried because
intuitive eating was like all the hype
right right everyone was talking about
it
so um that's what i tried to do i really
just tried to like
watch it i ate because i was really
afraid of tracking then like i was
deathly afraid of like tracking just
because i had done that before
and it caused me to restrict and it
caused like similar to binge eating
behaviors from it
so i was i did not want to track all of
and then by the end i was working out
like three days a week so like nothing
like
the program but like some cardio
mixed with like a little bit of like
strength not
not much i didn't really know much but
it was just that it was about like three
days a week and then i was like
intuitive eating in my head
drawer yeah i love that you bring up the
mindset switch i think that's a really
key unlock for both everyone listening
right now but also in the program you
know that mental health is so important
and
being in a place where you value your
health first and you're looking to
make the changes over time you i could
tell coming in you were already and you
had already gone through a lot like you
had gone through
the diets you'd gone through the phases
of losing it and
you were ready to like really figure out
okay what is it going to take to
figure this out and do it in a
sustainable way and i think that's
one of the biggest reasons why you are
where you are today because you had that
amazing mindset going into it which i
mean
i the same thing happened to me in terms
of like it
sometimes we have to go through some
crap to figure out that there's
that the slower way is better but i'm
just i just think it's a really great
mindset journey you've had as far as
like first of all that
longevity and sustainability but also
realizing like
you can feel good at your weight and
accept your body but also want to change
and also want to improve your health
they're not mutually exclusive um
because i agree with you right now
um it's not just about like losing
weight or looking a certain way
or like having fat loss be associated
with being more attractive or anything
right it's like
feeling good and and you can do that at
a heavier weight or a lighter weight but
being healthy and really having that
goal um
i think that it's great that you were
able to say like i worked on myself i
really accept my body
yes i still have some off days because
like who doesn't but
now i'm ready to like move forward with
the next step um for my health i think
that that's also like a huge mindset
um breakthrough that you had so in terms
of
when you when we first started working
together in terms of your nutrition
and when you started the petite power
program what were like the biggest
things you changed like in the first few
weeks
what did you change okay so like the
biggest
thing well the two biggest things were
one the amount of protein i had to eat
and two the water
yeah so those are like the two biggest
ones
because like going into it i like it's
funny because
ironically like a few weeks before i
even like joined the program
i had been talking to a co-worker
telling her that i don't i don't really
like protein
i was like not my thing
and then um water i always drink
by pretty much like only drink water but
i didn't drink that much
those were like the two like when we
went over the nutrition
and you're like oh this is you know
putting the whole pff
out there i'm like oh i'm like this
makes sense because i completely cut out
like a
whole group yeah
awesome okay so protein and water and
then when
you started following the program were
you doing tons of cardio
do you feel like you like what was the
physical changes
or not physical changes but the fitness
changes that you
started doing
i was pretty much doing essentially a
cardio day
like just one day of like hit pretty
much
and then the other two days i would do
instagram workouts like
i would follow like you know i had there
was like an instagram
people and i would either do like an arm
day and like a leg day and that was it
like basically an arm day a leg day and
then a hip day
and that was that was essentially my old
yeah way program doing things and then
when you moved into petite power
obviously i know the answer
for people who have are not familiar
with the program did you feel like it
was a lot of cardio did you feel like
it was unsustainable to do or did you
feel like it was uh it was easy to
follow and and not
you know a crazy amount of exercise it
wasn't bad like um
the program itself it was so the first
i really like the first four weeks it's
like four full days
and then you add the fifth day like in
but um
it was very easy to grasp like it didn't
feel like too much
it didn't feel um like it wasn't doable
because like you kind of start at your
own
level and i like that because before
i was either pushing myself too hard
where i didn't want to go to the gym the
next day and like um
in your program i felt like i could do
it like it wasn't bad it was easy to
follow
and i didn't feel like it was too much
at all it seemed it was very sustainable
that's great i love that i think a lot
of petite women
will we tend to think that we need to
like do cardio every day and like
run our butts off in order to lose fat
but i think you're a really good sample
example of not having to increase the
intensity or spend like hours in the gym
every day to
kind of move in the direction of your
goals in terms
of your nutrition when we first started
working together did you
i know you started increasing your
protein which made a huge difference but
did you restrict any food groups from
then on or cut any
like foods out at all or was it mostly
just learning like
sustainable moderation and portions
that was like the more refreshing part
about
the nutrition aspect because like um in
the past
like i that you know you have you label
the things in your head it's like good
food bad food
and well going into like our first like
nutrition call like i didn't really know
what to expect
um because like you know it's easy to be
like oh don't eat this like don't eat
and like i hear it like all the time
like you can't eat that much sugar you
have to
clean your diet and like eat broccoli
but
yeah it like it was you put it in it
like when you explained it you put it in
a way where
it kind of it clicked like i hear it a
lot like i know
like you said it like it said click like
i just had to
essentially eat enough of like
you know the protein carbs fats and
stuff
um and like build billing meal whereas
before
i was so like i restrict myself on like
something i was like white bread versus
like wheat bread i focus way too much on
like
something like that where you made it
seem like everything is okay as long as
like
me you know the standard i guess
yeah and did that change how like how
did that show up in your life for you
was that really
life-changing for you to be able to feel
like you could eat foods that were bad
previously
or like how did that feel i mean it was
kind of um it put it like it took a lot
of stress
off of eating because i think before
that
food was always on my mind like it was
kind of like it was
constantly there like i have to eat less
or i have to eat
this and not that you know um
but when like i learned how to eat like
you know like through you i guess um
it was like it was suddenly i didn't
have to think about it
like i didn't think about nearly as much
just because
now i was like by like the first week of
eating the way like that you were like
teaching
i noticed that i wasn't constantly
hungry and
that like i wasn't craving all these
things that before i would be craving
and that if i did i could have and it
wouldn't be like the end of the world
and then i would like the fact that i
still saw progress throughout the whole
thing kind of like encouraged me more
that like okay this is working
like this this makes sense and like it's
funny because like you think like
like weight loss is hard but it is
to an extent but you made it feel really
easy i think too because you had you
came in with that right mindset
it felt easier because you were ready to
give yourself the space
to learn and grow i feel like it's
weight loss can be really hard when we
have like
crazy expectations or we put a lot of
pressure on ourselves to see results
really fast but
you were just in the you've somehow you
you're well you're an amazing person but
you just somehow you were like in the
right place to really like
for this program and i think mentally
you really benefited in that way from it
oh i wanted to ask did you track macros
and for how long before you transitioned
off the macros
yeah so at the beginning it was tracking
and um
i pretty much tracked throughout the
entire time we worked together which was
from
february 2018
to like around september
around that time yeah um so i tracked it
then and then
afterwards i did i wasn't tracking it
like
through the numbers anymore i was just
kind of like
eyebrowing like the plate making sure
yeah each one was like met
you know i did stop tracking and then
this year i
did start tracking again when i like
started to
like lose weight again because i did
talk about like a break
throughout the holidays because i didn't
really yeah it was holidays
it's good to do maintenance blocks too
and just let your metabolism
do its thing um did you find because you
said before
um like a few years ago you were really
nervous to track
because you know just mentally a lot of
women are worried about that and
it can be triggering but how did you
feel once you got into it and you
understood it like saw it as more of an
educational tool
how was your mindset while you were
tracking did it feel
easier like what how did it align or not
align with your expectations or the
fears you had about it
at the beginning i was wary of it um
because like before i wasn't really
tracking mac because i was tracking
calories
right um so i was just going like
with the number um that the calorie
calculator had given me
yeah um and then when i transitioned to
tracking macros
like you are tracking the macronutrients
the number i started tracking with
wasn't like necessarily like the biggest
number
so i was weird at the beginning because
like because of that i'm like am i going
to be
full am i going to be hungry but then
once you like start meeting
each macronutrient like you know you're
like hitting each macro
you realize that you're not hungry and
then it kind of like that's when it
all really clicked like when i
didn't feel hungry because before i was
maybe eating like
definitely less than what i was eating
when i was trying when i tracked with
you
but i was always hungry but i also
realized that it's because i was eating
really unbalanced
that like switch and the mindset did
help me like get over the fear of
tracking and then it became like just
another thing
i like i didn't really think about it as
tracking it was just like kind of like
logging your food
yeah so it sounds like it it kind of
reassured you that you weren't dieting
it wasn't about being on a diet right it
was just like
improving the composition of the actual
foods you're eating so that you can feel
full and you can have a
you can get your metabolism to speed up
and a lot of people are
end up actually with eating more
calories but just more of
the things that are going to keep them
full and healthy and and
moving towards their goals so and and
also it's awesome that you got to have a
period of time where
after you tracked for a bit you could
transition into
like normal intuitive eating again but
with that new knowledge of like this is
my portion size this is how much protein
i need
and that's what we generally want i mean
unless you have a really concerted
effort like you are now and
you're going back to tracking to lean on
that as a resource which is totally
common it's great that you can just go
off of that tracking when you want to do
a maintenance phase and
and just trust that you know okay i have
this education now i'll be able to eat
and put together pff meals without like
stressing too much
right yeah and it's like very i don't
know it gives me a lot of peace
like right now like with the injury i'm
obviously
not working out to the extent that i was
before
because of um my leg but um
now it's like it's interesting because
before i would have been
freaking out about that right and like
now
it's kind of like i've just been eating
you know
normal and i've been fine i've been i've
maintained because essentially what i'm
doing since i can't really
like do much with my leg yeah how do you
feel about like
how do you feel like nutrition mostly
drove your results or mostly exercise or
a combination
that's like a combination like nutrition
is
what like completely changed everything
so like if one overweight's the other
stuff from nutrition but
the exercise definitely like helped keep
me motivated and keep me on track in
that regard
so where are you now like tell us where
you are
mentally now like i know you're injured
so it's actually a really it could
probably be a tough time but in the
grand
scheme of like your whole fitness
journey and like the years and your
weight loss
like where are you now versus when where
where you started oh god when i started
like i just felt like a mound that i
could not
climb like it like it felt like way
way far away um but like
now i'm very happy like i'm very happy
with where i am like i haven't like
obviously i have goals
um but like i am perfectly fine
right now i feel like i could tell the
difference so definitely feel more
confident
it's something i don't have to worry
about which is nice because before i
feel like
health and like fitness kind of just
loomed over me like all the time was
something i was constantly focusing on
and now i feel like i can like step away
from that and kind of just focus on my
own
my personal life everything so it's not
something that like weighs over me
i never wanted like fitness to be like
the center focus of my life that like
now it's become more of like a
way to help me and my mood like i that's
how i got injured
like i went running and like i worked
out in the morning and then in the
afternoon
i was like you know what i feel like
going on a run yeah
that's so nice now it's more something i
enjoy doing
and um of course i you know have goals
that i
want to reach that are just like more
personal but i'm happy where i am right
now it's not like i
need to change anything and i feel like
i can take my time with it too which is
really nice
that's awesome it makes me so i'm just
so proud of you like watching your
glow up over the last few years just
every time i check on you it just looks
like you're like doing so great and
you're on that next thing but you've
always had that level of like i feel
like you've had that level of peace
throughout the whole thing like you know
you're gonna get there you know what you
need to do and it's
it's more just enjoying the process now
and and taking care of yourself
which is so nice to see oh yeah like
once i got
out of like the mindset of basically
having like
the expectation i need to lose weight by
my birthday or i need to lose weight by
like
this holiday or something like that um
it definitely like took a lot of stress
out of it
in general like that i think like before
when i lost weight and then gained it
all back
i had that like i need to lose weight
before this date type of thing
and then i gain it all back if i would
have just taken my time and maybe try to
learn more
maybe i would have kept it up i don't
know but um
now like just learning it and like just
knowing that your body will change no
matter what it's like
fine it like takes a lot of stress out
of it so what would you give as a final
question
what advice would you give to anyone in
the short girl gang who has not done
petite power doesn't you know hasn't
learned all of this yet
um and they're and they're right where
you were at the beginning looking at the
mountain
and feeling like super overwhelmed what
would you tell them
well for one try to be as forgiving
with yourself as much as possible and i
think that's like the mindset i
accepted when i started it just because
i don't know i think
over time i had been so harsh to myself
like with
what i said you know like this the
language that you tell yourself like in
the mirror and stuff like that
and it didn't make the journey any
easier
like like speaking to myself that way so
i think the first thing is to be as
forgiving with yourself as possible
there's gonna be ups and downs
throughout the entire journey it's not
gonna be easy
that's like the first step after that
like
really trust the process and be patient
and to not like go into the rabbit holes
of just like
following anyone i don't know i think
like be specific with who you choose to
like
take advice from like with you like i
you i went into it wary because i didn't
know what to expect but then like
learning from you the fact that
you do have all the certifications for
it and some people that aren't
on instagram may not like
you know checking for like the
credibility
behind like what people are saying um
but like journey specific just be
patient
to really listen to your pff advice yeah
i love it like it's like it's really
like it's funny because i see it like
like on your page all the time
and when people have asked me about it i
feel like i sound like a spokesperson
for your program like
i mean i got a lot of people at my job
on it which is really funny i know
i feel like you always have co-worker
your co-workers messaging me saying like
i work with jenny and she's just like
radiant every day like what did you do
i mean you put in the work but they know
like they've
all messaged me i feel like so nice but
yeah so like that's another i call like
the bff advice
and like drink water water
and sleep that those are like
at the top of like the health advice i
guess
can you explain really quick what pff is
to anyone who's watching this
and doesn't know so i'm not a
spokesperson
but um uff is essentially a very
balanced way of building up your meal
there's like
your proteins your fats your carbs
balanced meal essentially uh and
basically what it does
like when it goes into your body is that
it like stabilizes
you like your blood sugar
and um that well yeah
yeah and did that did you find that
basically so you were no longer
basically eating like
carbs alone right you were always eating
them to all the three food groups
together
yeah yeah like it's it's interesting
because like
now i when i even pick up a snack like
i'm very
conscious of like what i'm eating in
that sense yeah oh like
i should eat i should add yogurt to this
to get the protein awesome well is there
anything else
that you wanted to mention to the
shortfall gang or do you think we
covered a lot of
the sort of breakthroughs for you other
than like
truly like trusting you like just you
know
because it like it's like it's really
nice how like knowing that
someone is very like well informed and
like really just wants the best for you
so yeah and and your goal like
especially like if they join your
program specifically like to work with
you
like uh and like your team plan on your
team has grown
um just knowing that like everyone's
catered to your goals
and like if you have a problem like i'm
guessing like if i were to join now like
let's say and i told you i had an injury
you'd work around that like you wouldn't
just
be like oh no go jump on your injured
leg for sure no
yeah so like it's really like nice so
you know they're like having that trust
in like a coach
it was really nice and refreshing to
have we were like one of the very first
people we had
back then like early adopters so you you
had to make much more of a leap of faith
than people do today like there wasn't
like hundreds of transformation picks
back
then like that's where i stopped your
page
you were like you were part of that
early phase so having your trust back
then means
a lot today and it meant a lot back then
too as we were just
like a wee little startup so thanks
jenny no problem
awesome well thank you so much for your
time today i think this is a really
really good
um recap of your journey and i think
it's really going to help the community
and
and they'll feel more comfortable and
more more like empowered that they can
do it too so thank you so much i really
appreciate you being
vulnerable and offering up your story
and all of that stuff
no problem i'm here awesome i'm always
here
all right you guys that was my chat with
jenny i hope you loved it and you
learned something new
and mostly i hope that you're sitting
wherever you are behind your computer
your phone and you're just feeling
really empowered to make these positive
changes
just like jenna did in your life and
just know that it is completely possible
for you
i would encourage you to not just sit
there on it and feel that way but to
really take action
if you have any interest at all in
learning more about the program that
jenny went through
take a look at the link down below it's
just check it out i think it could be
really amazing for you and we have
changed hundreds of women's lives over
the course of the last few years
through the petite power method just
like jenny all right you guys i hope
that you loved this interview please
give it a like and subscribe for more
content and i will see you guys
next week bye